# Noma Could Have Changed So Much More Than Food
- The globally acclaimed restaurant had the power and influence to remake restaurant culture. Instead, it perpetuated the darkest parts of that world.

By Tejal Rao
Reporting from Los Angeles, Tejal Rao is a chief restaurant critic for The New York Times.

March 12, 2026
On the first day of Noma’s pop-up in Los Angeles, amid noisy protests outside the venue and after The New York Times published allegations that he violently abused employees in the past, the Danish chef René Redzepi announced Wednesday that he was stepping down as the head of Noma, one of the most influential restaurants in the world.

“I’m sorry everyone is in this situation,” Mr. Redzepi told a quiet, attentive staff in a video posted to both his and Noma’s Instagram accounts.

Mr. Redzepi, an international celebrity, was once knighted by the Queen of Denmark for his contributions to Danish culture. The restaurant he co-founded in 2003 held three Michelin stars, eventually maxed out on how many times (five) it could be ranked first on the World’s 50 Best Restaurants list, and published cult cookbooks that influenced countless chefs.







Credit...Dishes from Noma's 2017 pop-up in Tulum, Mexico. Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times
From Noma’s earliest days, Mr. Redzepi operated within self-imposed constraints of time and place, of seasonality and geography, applying ancient ideas to fine dining in a way that felt modern. He rejected imported luxury ingredients, reframing the foods around him with immediacy, and brought cooks into the dining room to explain dishes to diners. The annual MAD Symposiums he founded were meant to push forward cutting-edge ideas about environmental sustainability, modern leadership and the future of food.

At the height of its power, it seemed as if anything and everything might be possible at Noma: The restaurant shifted the creative center of the culinary world, and its financial and cultural capital, to Copenhagen. It profoundly changed the aesthetics of fine dining. But it failed to change anything below the surface.

Now it seems that Noma’s progressive ideas may have started and ended on the plate, each dish a perfectly contained fantasy, an intricate composition that required exacting and often punishing labor, then concealed it all. As with so many great performances, you weren’t meant to think too hard about the people backstage, or to know how much blood and sweat might have gone into it.

Noma’s ideas were imitated in kitchens all over the world, where you could suddenly find moss and rocks and tweezed flower petals. As the restaurant gathered acclaim and power, it might have applied some of its creative juice to reimagining and reshaping the toxic kitchen culture familiar to so many cooks, setting the standard for fair pay and fair treatment for its staff.

ImageCooks with tweezers work at a shared table.
Cooks working at the Mexico pop-up. The eye-popping dishes required meticulous, even punishing, work, often by unpaid interns.Credit...Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times
Instead, we’ve learned that Noma perpetuated the darkest parts of the restaurant industry and played out the violent, regressive clichés of the chef-auteur.

In the Times report, cooks who worked at Noma from 2009 to 2017 shared stories of how Mr. Redzepi walked down the line, punching his entire kitchen staff in punishment for one person’s mistake. And how Mr. Redzepi crouched under counters to stab them with a barbecue fork, out of sight of diners walking past to admire the open kitchen. These cooks, as they were being bullied, were asked to perform their own well-being.

Mr. Redzepi says he has changed in recent years, but from the comments posted under a recent apology, it seems that plenty of food professionals shrug off bullying in the kitchen or agree that it can be motivating, even necessary — the only way to get the best out of the people who work for you, the only way to get to the top.

That simply isn’t true, and one of Noma’s greatest flaws is its passing down that idea to the thousands of cooks, many of them unpaid, who made pilgrimages there to learn from the best.

Image
A bearded man in an apron.
The Danish chef René Redzepi with staff members at Noma in 2018.Credit...Signe Birck for The New York Times
The Times article included accounts of Mr. Redzepi hitting cooks, humiliating them, threatening them with deportation. One of them said Mr. Redzepi slammed him against the wall, punching him in the stomach for leaving a mark on a flower petal as he placed it with tweezer tips — a mark that would make his presence, his work, even faintly visible to the diner.

Many of the former staff members said they had kept the abuse secret for years, and were still afraid of retaliation from one of the most powerful, well-connected restaurants in the world. Cooks were expected to be invisible, to remain silent, to not even laugh, and for years, as Mr. Redzepi’s star rose as the creative force and face of his restaurant, many of them complied.

On Wednesday, just before Mr. Redzepi announced he was stepping down, a dozen or so protesters gathered outside the Los Angeles pop-up, banging pots and pans and chanting, led by the labor group One Fair Wage and Noma’s former head of fermentation, Jason Ignacio White, who has been sharing stories from former Noma employees online.

Protesters held signs that read, “You bought a ticket to a crime scene,” as chauffeured Cadillac Escalades pulled up to the compound’s iron gates and the diners inside them leaned away from the tinted windows. Each time a car passed through, an installation of giant inflatable mushrooms became visible for a few seconds before the gates closed again, smoothly and automatically.

Image
Protesters holding signs on a sunny day.
One Fair Wage and Jason Ignacio White, a former Noma employee, led a protest Wednesday outside Noma Los Angeles.Credit...Mark Abramson for The New York Times
Though American Express and Blackbird, two major partners for Noma in Los Angeles, withdrew their sponsorship of the pop-up this week, it seemed as if lots of diners who bought tickets — at $1,500 a head — were still showing up. If the pop-up continues as planned for the next three months, Noma will be looking at millions of dollars in revenue.

Mr. Redzepi had posted an apologetic statement to Instagram days earlier, and a Noma spokeswoman said that, unlike before, the company now has a formal human resources system. It began paying its interns in 2022. But protesters contended that the chef has never been held truly accountable for the extent of his violence.

Noma has become an international symbol for abusive kitchen culture, but what would repair and accountability look like in an industry that needs so much of it?

Image
Several people are silhouetted on a gravel path, under dark tree foliage. Behind them, tall inflatable mushrooms with red and yellow tops rise against a blue sky.
A giant mushroom installation inside the Noma Los Angeles pop-up venue in Silver Lake.Credit...Mark Abramson for The New York Times
In his 2010 cookbook, “Noma: Time and Place in Nordic Cuisine,” Mr. Redzepi compared a regular high-pressure day at Noma to the kind of perfect storm that Norwegian fishermen sometimes face, “where the sky and sea seem to flow together and Ragnarok (in Nordic mythology, the end of the world) is just around the corner.”

In his video about stepping away, he explained to the staff that “this is your restaurant now, each and every one of you.” He asked them to fight for it. But it was unclear what that meant.

Was Noma, a place full of talent, going to become a worker-owned organization? Who exactly would lead the team? What role, if any, would Mr. Redzepi play? Or was this just another day in Noma’s perfect storm, another squall and breaker for Mr. Redzepi to weather?

“I’m going into planning the next phase,” he said.