# René Redzepi Steps Down at Noma Amid Allegations of Past Abuse
- After 23 years running the Copenhagen restaurant, widely considered one of the most innovative and important in the world, the chef is leaving.


Listen · 3:29 min
Share full article523
Video
René Redzepi of Noma Leaves After Abuse Allegations

0:31
The chef René Redzepi stepped down from Noma on Wednesday after running the restaurant for 23 years. Dozens of former employees told The New York Times that Mr. Redzepi engaged in physical and psychological abuse at his restaurant.CreditCredit...Thibault Savary/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
Julia Moskin
By Julia Moskin
Julia Moskin has been reporting on Noma and the world’s other top restaurants for 25 years.

March 11, 2026
Leer en español
Sign up for the Where to Eat newsletter.  Restaurant recommendations, from new places to beloved classics. Get it sent to your inbox.
The chef René Redzepi stepped down Wednesday from Noma, the restaurant he co-founded in 2003 and led to international acclaim.

The move came after recent reports in The New York Times and on social media about his abuse of employees at Noma in the 2000s and 2010s. The allegations overshadowed the debut of Noma’s 16-week pop-up in Los Angeles, where protesters gathered Wednesday, waving signs and chanting.

In a statement on Instagram, he wrote:

“The recent weeks have brought attention and important conversations about our restaurant, industry and my past leadership.

I have worked to be a better leader and Noma has taken big steps to transform the culture over many years. I recognize these changes do not repair the past. An apology is not enough; I take responsibility for my own actions.

After more than two decades of building and leading this restaurant, I’ve decided to step away and allow our extraordinary leaders to now guide the restaurant into its next chapter. I have also resigned from the board of MAD, the nonprofit organization I founded in 2011.”

Image

Credit...@reneredzepinoma
Image

Credit...@reneredzepinoma
Mr. Redzepi also posted a tearful video of himself apologizing to his staff.

A Noma representative did not respond to requests for comment from The Times.

The decision came days after The Times published a report based on independent interviews with some 35 former employees who said Mr. Redzepi had engaged in workplace abuse from 2009 to 2017, when the Copenhagen restaurant was building its reputation for innovative, artfully arranged dishes composed of ingredients harvested from the Scandinavian landscape.

In the preceding weeks, Jason Ignacio White, a former Noma employee, had been gathering allegations of workplace abuse sent to him by numerous other Noma alumni and posting them on Instagram. Those posts have been viewed more than 17 million times.

Between 2009 and 2017, the employees told The Times, he punched members of the staff, jabbed them with kitchen implements and slammed them against walls. They described lasting trauma from layers of psychological abuse, including intimidation, body shaming and public ridicule. Mr. Redzepi, they said, threatened to use his influence to get them blacklisted from restaurants around the world, to have their families deported, or to get their wives fired from their jobs at other businesses.

Prominent corporate sponsors of the pop-up, including Cadillac, Resy American Express and the restaurant loyalty platform Blackbird, had pulled back from the event in recent days.

Mr. Redzepi had previously acknowledged being a bully and verbally abusing employees. He apologized for the physical abuse on Saturday, but that statement did not promise any specific actions that would have demonstrated accountability to victims and the public.

As for what the latest decision means for Noma, in today’s post, Mr. Redzepi wrote: “For anyone wondering what this means for the restaurant, let me say it clearly: the Noma team today is the strongest and most inspiring it has ever been. We’ve been open for 23 years, and I’m incredibly proud of our people, our creativity, and the direction Noma is heading. This team will carry forward together into our LA residency.”

He did not name a successor.